Portland City Council Meeting Closed Caption File June 10, 2025 – 1:00 p.m.


This ﬁle was produced through the closed captioning process for the televised city Council broadcast and should not be considered a verbatim transcript. The oﬃcial vote counts, motions, and names of speakers are included in the oﬃcial minutes.


Speaker: Good afternoon. It is 103 on Tuesday, June 10th. I am calling our council meeting to order. We have a number of a number of agenda items that we are going to open today. Most of which we are not going to do a lot with today. But this
is where we start to do more of the technical pieces of the budget. We're going to go through some of those technical pieces of the budget right now, and then we will hear public testimony, and then we will have time to do a little bit more with amendments on the budget. We will pick up where we left oﬀ tomorrow. Keelan, could you please call the roll?
Speaker: Canal here?
Speaker: Mr. Ryan here. Koyama lane here. Maria, here. Novick here. Clark, here. Green. Here. Zimmerman. Here. Avalos, here. Dunphy. Smith. Here. Pirtle-guiney here.
Speaker: And, robert, could you please read us our rules of decorum?
Speaker: Thank you.
Speaker: Welcome.
Speaker: Everyone, to the Portland City Council to testify before council in person or virtually, you must please sign up in advance on the council agenda at w-w-w-
what. Council agenda. Information on engaging with council can be found on the council clerk's web page. Individuals may testify for three minutes unless the
presiding oﬃcer states otherwise. Your microphone will be muted when your time is over. Presiding oﬃcer preserves order. Disruptive conduct such as shouting.
Refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up or interrupting others testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If you cause a disruption, a warning will be given. Further disruption will result in ejection from the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave once ejected is subject to arrest for trespass. Additionally, council may take a short recess and reconvene virtually. Your testimony should please address the matter being considered. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. If you are a lobbyist, please identify the organization you represent. Virtual testiﬁer should please unmute themselves when the council clerk calls your name. Thank you.
Speaker: Thank you, mr. Taylor. Keelan, could you please read agenda items one
through? One through six. There are seven things here, and my script says one through six.
Speaker: The ﬁrst approval.
Speaker: Got it. Okay. Could you please read agenda item one?
Speaker: Yes. Item one. Agenda approval. Council will vote to approve the agenda, to reorder items on the agenda, or to add an item to the next meeting's agenda.
Speaker: Thank you. Colleagues. Are there any requests to amend or reorder the agenda? Okay.
Speaker: Item two conduct a proposed use hearing on state shared revenue. Item three certify that certain services are provided by the city to establish eligibility for
state shared revenue. Item four approve accepting funds from the state of Oregon under the state revenue sharing program for ﬁscal year beginning July 1st, 2025 and ending June 30th, 2026. Item ﬁve adopt the annual budget of the city and establish appropriations for the ﬁscal year beginning July 1st, 2025 and ending June
30th, 2026. Item six approve levying taxes for the city for the ﬁscal year beginning July 1st, 2025 and ending June 30th, 2026. And item seven authorize a temporary interfund loan not to exceed $50 million from the Portland parks and recreation system development charge fund to the ﬁre and police disability and retirement fund to provide interim ﬁnancing for ﬁscal year 2025 through 26. Cash ﬂow deﬁcit. Due to the timing of property tax collections.
Speaker: Thank you. Keelan. So, colleagues, before we start taking on each of
these agenda items, which we will do some brief work on today here, some public testimony on, and then spend most of our time on agenda item ﬁve. Budget director levine is going to go over our process in a little bit more detail. Director levine, could you please do that for us?
Speaker: Sure. Thank you. And for the record, ruth levine, the director of the city
budget oﬃce. Good afternoon. Council president, City Council. So as council president mentioned, we're here today for the next steps in adopting the budget for ﬁscal year 20 2526, following today and tomorrow's proceedings, the budget ordinance will pass a second reading, and council will vote on all of the budget items on June 18th. There are a number of procedural steps we need to go through, and as Keelan read into the record, we have six items in front of you that are part of this process. The ﬁrst three items relate to the acceptance and use of state shared revenues in our budget. Revenue shared by the state of Oregon primarily consists of cigarette, liquor, and retail marijuana taxes. So ﬁrst council will hold a proposed use hearing on the state shared revenue. Then you will consider a resolution certifying that the city meets the eligibility requirements of state shared revenue.
And then you will consider an ordinance accepting the state shared revenue. The fourth and ﬁfth items, number six and seven, on the agenda that council will consider today and tomorrow are or today are the ordinance levying taxes and an
interfund loan between the parks capital fund and the ﬁre, police and disability and retirement fund, which addresses technical timing issues with the revenues, and the sixth and ﬁnal item, which is item number ﬁve on the agenda that council will consider is the adopted budget ordinance. And that will be obviously the focus of your time today and tomorrow. So with that overview, we can begin with our ﬁrst item, the state shared revenue hearing. Council president, you can open the state shared revenue hearing.
Speaker: Thank you. So we actually have all six of these open. So we are going into
a hearing colleagues to discuss proposed uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council in compliance with the provisions of state revenue sharing regulations, which are in ors 221.770 to allow Portlanders to comment on the possible use of the funds in conjunction with the annual budget process, as proposed for council adoption for ﬁscal year 20 2526, the budget anticipates receiving $21 million from state revenue sharing under ors 221770. As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support ﬁre prevention and police patrol services. Director levine, could you provide an overview of the eligibility for state revenue? State shared revenue resolution?
Speaker: Certainly, council will consider a resolution to certify that the city meets
the eligibility requirements for state shared revenue. State law requires that we provide a number of services to be eligible for this revenue, and this resolution certiﬁes that we do so. The services certiﬁed by the city of Portland are police protection, ﬁre prevention, street construction and maintenance and lighting, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, planning, zoning and subdivision control and water. The third and ﬁnal step in accepting the state shared revenue is for council to consider and vote upon the ordinance to accept state shared revenue. Once you've